README.md, before:

# Cross-Border Payments Fraud

**Open-source research case study** from Devbrew.

Demonstrates fraud detection and OFAC sanctions screening for cross-border payments, with a focus on real-time performance.

_For research/educational use only — not production-ready._

---

This repository demonstrates how to build a low-latency pipeline for **fraud detection** and **sanctions screening** in cross-border payments.

It combines public and synthetic datasets (IEEE-CIS, PaySim, OFAC) with modern ML and API tooling to provide:

- Training notebooks for fraud modeling and sanctions matching
- An inference API built with FastAPI
- A demo UI with real-time scoring and explainability
- Documentation, ROI framing, and reference architecture

The project is licensed under **Apache 2.0**.

Models trained on IEEE-CIS data are restricted to **non-commercial research use**.

## Overview

This project is a **reference pipeline** for fraud detection and sanctions screening in cross-border payments.

It demonstrates how to:

- Detect fraud in **card-not-present (CNP) transactions** using public and synthetic datasets.
- Screen sender/receiver names against the **OFAC Sanctions Lists** with fuzzy matching.
- Generate a fraud risk score, highlight top contributing features, and return sanctions match results, **targeting latency under 200ms**.

> **Note**  
> This is a **research case study**, not a production system.

Models trained on the IEEE-CIS dataset are for **non-commercial research use only**.
For production deployments, retraining on proprietary or licensed datasets is required.

## Data Sources

- **Fraud detection**
  - [IEEE-CIS e-commerce fraud dataset](https://www.kaggle.com/c/ieee-fraud-detection) - research only (non-commercial license)
  - [PaySim synthetic mobile money dataset](https://www.kaggle.com/ntnu-testimon/paysim1) - open data
- **Sanctions screening**
  - [OFAC SDN and Consolidated Lists](https://sanctionslist.ofac.treas.gov/Home) -— public domain

## Tech Stack

- **Backend**: FastAPI, Python, LightGBM/XGBoost, Redis, PostgreSQL
- **Frontend**: Next.js, Tailwind, Vercel
- **Hosting**: Fly.io or Render (API), Vercel (UI) or any cloud service provider (e.g. AWS, GCP, Azure, DigitalOcean, Heroku, etc.)

## Repo Structure

```
cross-border-payments-fraud/
  ├── apps/
  │   ├── api/           # FastAPI scoring service
  │   └── web/           # Next.js demo UI
  ├── packages/
  │   ├── models/        # trained artifacts, ONNX exports
  │   └── shared/        # schemas, utils
  ├── data_catalog/      # dataset download scripts + notes
  ├── docs/              # PRD, one-pagers, ROI, architecture
  └── notebooks/         # EDA + model training
```

## Quickstart

### 1. Clone the repo

```bash
git clone https://github.com/devbrewai/cross-border-payments-fraud.git
cd cross-border-payments-fraud
```

### 2. Setup environment

**Using UV (recommended):**

```bash
# Install UV
curl -LsSf https://astral.sh/uv/install.sh | sh

# Sync dependencies (creates .venv automatically)
uv sync

# Activate virtual environment
source .venv/bin/activate   # Linux/Mac
.venv\Scripts\activate      # Windows
```

**Or using pip:**

```bash
python -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate   # Linux/Mac
.venv\Scripts\activate      # Windows

uv pip install -e .         # Install from pyproject.toml
```

### 3. Run API locally

```bash
uvicorn apps.api.main:app --reload
```

### 4. Run frontend

```bash
cd apps/web
npm install
npm run dev
```

## Demo

- Video walkthrough: _planned_
- Optional live demo endpoint (rate-limited): _planned_

## Documentation

- [PRD](./docs/PRD.md) — detailed product requirements
- ROI one-pager (coming soon)

## Disclaimer

This repository is provided for **educational and research purposes only**.

- The **IEEE-CIS Fraud Dataset** is licensed for **non-commercial use only** and may not be redistributed or used to train commercial models.
- Any **trained model artifacts** derived from IEEE-CIS data are intended solely for demonstration and benchmarking.
- For production systems, you must retrain the pipeline on your own **proprietary or licensed datasets**.
- The **PaySim** and **OFAC Sanctions Lists** datasets are open/public and may be used more broadly, subject to their respective terms.

Devbrew makes no representations or warranties regarding the suitability of this code for production use. Use at your own risk and ensure compliance with all applicable laws, regulations, and dataset licenses.

## License

Apache 2.0 © Devbrew LLC. See [LICENSE](./LICENSE).  
[NOTICE](./NOTICE) file includes dataset attributions.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome!

- Open an issue for bugs or feature requests.
- Submit a PR following our contribution guidelines [here](./CONTRIBUTING.md).

Commit message:

docs(readme): streamline overview and clarify scope
- Condense intro; emphasize CNP fraud, OFAC screening, sub-200ms latency
- Replace long overview with concise bullets and “What’s included” section
- Name FastAPI inference service and Next.js demo UI explicitly
- Add research-only notice and IEEE-CIS non‑commercial constraint; concise license line
- Update docs section: refine PRD description; mark ROI one-pager as planned

README.md, after:

# Cross-Border Payments Fraud

**Open-source research case study** from Devbrew demonstrating fraud detection and OFAC sanctions screening for cross-border payments.

This reference pipeline combines public datasets (IEEE-CIS, PaySim, OFAC) with modern ML and API tooling to:

- Detect fraud in **card-not-present (CNP) transactions**
- Screen sender/receiver names against **OFAC Sanctions Lists** with fuzzy matching
- Generate fraud risk scores with explainability, **targeting sub-200ms latency**

**What's included:**

- Training notebooks for fraud modeling and sanctions matching
- FastAPI inference service
- Next.js demo UI with real-time scoring
- Documentation and reference architecture (ROI framing planned)

> **Note**: For **research/educational use only**, not production-ready.
>
> Models trained on IEEE-CIS data are restricted to **non-commercial use**.
> Production deployments require retraining on proprietary or licensed datasets.

**License:** Apache 2.0

## Data Sources

- **Fraud detection**
  - [IEEE-CIS e-commerce fraud dataset](https://www.kaggle.com/c/ieee-fraud-detection) - research only (non-commercial license)
  - [PaySim synthetic mobile money dataset](https://www.kaggle.com/ntnu-testimon/paysim1) - open data
- **Sanctions screening**
  - [OFAC SDN and Consolidated Lists](https://sanctionslist.ofac.treas.gov/Home) -— public domain

## Tech Stack

- **Backend**: FastAPI, Python, LightGBM/XGBoost, Redis, PostgreSQL
- **Frontend**: Next.js, Tailwind, Vercel
- **Hosting**: Fly.io or Render (API), Vercel (UI) or any cloud service provider (e.g. AWS, GCP, Azure, DigitalOcean, Heroku, etc.)

## Repo Structure

```
cross-border-payments-fraud/
  ├── apps/
  │   ├── api/           # FastAPI scoring service
  │   └── web/           # Next.js demo UI
  ├── packages/
  │   ├── models/        # trained artifacts, ONNX exports
  │   └── shared/        # schemas, utils
  ├── data_catalog/      # dataset download scripts + notes
  ├── docs/              # PRD, one-pagers, ROI, architecture
  └── notebooks/         # EDA + model training
```

## Quickstart

### 1. Clone the repo

```bash
git clone https://github.com/devbrewai/cross-border-payments-fraud.git
cd cross-border-payments-fraud
```

### 2. Setup environment

**Using UV (recommended):**

```bash
# Install UV
curl -LsSf https://astral.sh/uv/install.sh | sh

# Sync dependencies (creates .venv automatically)
uv sync

# Activate virtual environment
source .venv/bin/activate   # Linux/Mac
.venv\Scripts\activate      # Windows
```

**Or using pip:**

```bash
python -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate   # Linux/Mac
.venv\Scripts\activate      # Windows

uv pip install -e .         # Install from pyproject.toml
```

### 3. Run API locally

```bash
uvicorn apps.api.main:app --reload
```

### 4. Run frontend

```bash
cd apps/web
npm install
npm run dev
```

## Demo

- Video walkthrough: _planned_
- Optional live demo endpoint (rate-limited): _planned_

## Documentation

- [PRD](./docs/PRD.md) — detailed research case study requirements
- ROI one-pager: _planned_

## Disclaimer

This repository is provided for **educational and research purposes only**.

- The **IEEE-CIS Fraud Dataset** is licensed for **non-commercial use only** and may not be redistributed or used to train commercial models.
- Any **trained model artifacts** derived from IEEE-CIS data are intended solely for demonstration and benchmarking.
- For production systems, you must retrain the pipeline on your own **proprietary or licensed datasets**.
- The **PaySim** and **OFAC Sanctions Lists** datasets are open/public and may be used more broadly, subject to their respective terms.

Devbrew makes no representations or warranties regarding the suitability of this code for production use. Use at your own risk and ensure compliance with all applicable laws, regulations, and dataset licenses.

## License

Apache 2.0 © Devbrew LLC. See [LICENSE](./LICENSE).  
[NOTICE](./NOTICE) file includes dataset attributions.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome!

- Open an issue for bugs or feature requests.
- Submit a PR following our contribution guidelines [here](./CONTRIBUTING.md).
